.TH BUILDEB 1
.SH NAME
buildeb \- Debian package building assistant
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B buildeb
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR \fIdirectory\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B buildeb
helps you build Debian packages easily. In order to do so, you have to fill a 
configuration file.
You can obtain one by launching \fBbuildeb\fR (1) with the 
\fB\-g\fR option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-g
Generates a configuration file template named \fIbuild_config.yml\fR in the 
working directory.
.TP
.B \-t
Stops the package building process just before building the packages.
This way, you are free to edit the configuration files located in the 
debian/ directory, which is located in the same directory where your makefile 
is.
You can then use \fBdebuild\fR (1) or \fBdpkg\-buildpackage\fR (1) to build
your package(s).
.TP
.B \-l
Don't remove the files created by \fBbuildeb\fR.
The default behaviour is to clean everything except the resulting packages.
Use this option if you want to keep the .changes file, the tarballs, the source
package, or the .build files.
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
Use \fIfile\fR as the configuration file.
If not specified, the file \fIbuild_config.yml\fR in the working directory will be used.
If it doesn't exist, \fBbuildeb\fR will produce an error.
.TP
.BI "\-d " directory
Use \fIdirectory\fR as the source directory.
Your Makefile must be in this directory.
If not specified, the working directory will be used.
.TP
.B \-h
Display an help.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dh_make (8),
.BR debuild (1),
.BR dpkg-buildpackage (1)
.SH AUHTOR
The \fBbuildeb\fR program was written by Maxime Bittan
<maxime.bittan@gmail.com> and Redha Gouicem
<redha.gouicem@gmail.com>.
